libarchive/resources/README.rst, before:

**To eliminate some problems with installation, the public API has
been moved from the libarchive package to libarchive.public, and will
be reflected in the next release. This is backwards-incompatible, but
would otherwise prevent the install due to broken dependencies during
install.**

------------
Introduction
------------

A ctypes-based adapter to libarchive. The source code is written to be clear
and intuitive.

Even 7-Zip is supported for both reading and writing.

I could definitely use some help, if any is available. Completeness will 
require a bit more work (see *libarchive*'s archive.h and archive_entry.h).

Project page: https://github.com/dsoprea/PyEasyArchive

The upsteam C library libarchive has a home page at
http://www.libarchive.org/


------------
Installation
------------

PyPI::

    $ sudo pip install libarchive

Python 2.7 or newer is required.  You also need a recent enough
*libarchive* (in particular, the "legacy" version 2 is not supported).


-----
Notes
-----

The Ubuntu *libarchive* package maintainer refuses to place a "libarchive.so" 
symlink, so you'll have to place this yourself. Depending on your Ubuntu, this 
can be libarchive.so.12, libarchive.so.13, or libarchive.so.14 .

For example::

    /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu$ sudo ln -s libarchive.so.12 libarchive.so


---------
Task List
---------

=====  =================================================
Done   Task
=====  =================================================
  X    Read entries from physical file
  X    Read entries from archive hosted in memory buffer
  X    Write physical files from archive
  X    Load memory buffer from archive
  X    Populate physical archive from physical files
  X    Populate archive hosted in memory buffer
  _    Populate archive entries from memory buffers
  _    Fill-out the entry object's information/accessors
  _    Read encrypted archives
  -    Write encrypted archives
=====  =================================================


--------
Examples
--------

To extract to the current directory from a physical file (and print each 
relative filepath)::

    import libarchive.public

    for entry in libarchive.public.file_pour('/tmp/test.zip'):
        print(entry)

To extract to the current directory from memory::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('/tmp/test.zip', 'rb') as f:
        for entry in libarchive.public.memory_pour(f.read()):
            print(entry)

To read files from a physical archive::

    import libarchive.public

    with libarchive.public.file_reader('test.7z') as e:
        for entry in e:
            with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                for block in entry.get_blocks():
                    f.write(block)

To read files from memory::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(buffer_) as e:
            for entry in e:
                with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                    for block in entry.get_blocks():
                        f.write(block)

To specify a format and/or filter for reads (rather than detecting it)::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(
                buffer_,
                format_code=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_TAR_USTAR, 
                filter_code=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FILTER_GZIP
            ) as e:
            for entry in e:
                with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                    for block in entry.get_blocks():
                        f.write(block)

To read the "filetype" flag for each entry::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(f.read()) as e:
            for entry in e:
                print(entry.filetype)

The output of this is::

    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)
    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)
    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)

To create a physical archive from physical files::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    for entry in libarchive.public.create_file(
                    'create.7z',
                    libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_7ZIP, 
                    ['/etc/profile']):
        print(entry)

To create an archive in memory from physical files::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    with open('/tmp/new.7z', 'wb') as f:
        def writer(buffer_, length):
            f.write(buffer_)
            return length

        for entry in libarchive.public.create_generic(
                        writer,
                        format_name=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_7ZIP, 
                        files=['/etc/profile']):
            print(entry)


-------
Testing
-------

*libarchive* uses [nose](https://nose.readthedocs.org) for testing::

    tests$ ./run.py

Commit message:

README.rst: Better explanation for symlink
Explain the libarchive.so symlink behavior on Debian-based distributions.

See also https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libarchive/+bug/1310765

libarchive/resources/README.rst, after:

**To eliminate some problems with installation, the public API has
been moved from the libarchive package to libarchive.public, and will
be reflected in the next release. This is backwards-incompatible, but
would otherwise prevent the install due to broken dependencies during
install.**

------------
Introduction
------------

A ctypes-based adapter to libarchive. The source code is written to be clear
and intuitive.

Even 7-Zip is supported for both reading and writing.

I could definitely use some help, if any is available. Completeness will 
require a bit more work (see *libarchive*'s archive.h and archive_entry.h).

Project page: https://github.com/dsoprea/PyEasyArchive

The upsteam C library libarchive has a home page at
http://www.libarchive.org/


------------
Installation
------------

PyPI::

    $ sudo pip install libarchive

Python 2.7 or newer is required.  You also need a recent enough
*libarchive* (in particular, the "legacy" version 2 is not supported).

On Debian-based architectures, including Ubuntu etc, you need to
install the *libarchive-dev* package in order to have a symlink from
"libarchive.so" to libarchive.so.13 or whichever version you actually
have installed.  However, this will pull in a large number of other
development packages, which are unconditional dependencies for the
libarchive-dev package.  If you want to avoid that, maybe just create
the symlink manually::

    $ sudo ln -s /usr/lib/libarchive.so.?? /usr/local/lib/libarchive.so

(assuming you have "/usr/local/lib" in your *ldconfig* path.)


---------
Task List
---------

=====  =================================================
Done   Task
=====  =================================================
  X    Read entries from physical file
  X    Read entries from archive hosted in memory buffer
  X    Write physical files from archive
  X    Load memory buffer from archive
  X    Populate physical archive from physical files
  X    Populate archive hosted in memory buffer
  _    Populate archive entries from memory buffers
  _    Fill-out the entry object's information/accessors
  _    Read encrypted archives
  -    Write encrypted archives
=====  =================================================


--------
Examples
--------

To extract to the current directory from a physical file (and print each 
relative filepath)::

    import libarchive.public

    for entry in libarchive.public.file_pour('/tmp/test.zip'):
        print(entry)

To extract to the current directory from memory::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('/tmp/test.zip', 'rb') as f:
        for entry in libarchive.public.memory_pour(f.read()):
            print(entry)

To read files from a physical archive::

    import libarchive.public

    with libarchive.public.file_reader('test.7z') as e:
        for entry in e:
            with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                for block in entry.get_blocks():
                    f.write(block)

To read files from memory::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(buffer_) as e:
            for entry in e:
                with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                    for block in entry.get_blocks():
                        f.write(block)

To specify a format and/or filter for reads (rather than detecting it)::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(
                buffer_,
                format_code=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_TAR_USTAR, 
                filter_code=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FILTER_GZIP
            ) as e:
            for entry in e:
                with open('/tmp/' + str(entry), 'wb') as f:
                    for block in entry.get_blocks():
                        f.write(block)

To read the "filetype" flag for each entry::

    import libarchive.public

    with open('test.7z', 'rb') as f:
        buffer_ = f.read()
        with libarchive.public.memory_reader(f.read()) as e:
            for entry in e:
                print(entry.filetype)

The output of this is::

    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)
    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)
    EntryFileType(IFREG=True, IFLNK=True, IFSOCK=True, IFCHR=False, IFBLK=False, IFDIR=False, IFIFO=False)

To create a physical archive from physical files::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    for entry in libarchive.public.create_file(
                    'create.7z',
                    libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_7ZIP, 
                    ['/etc/profile']):
        print(entry)

To create an archive in memory from physical files::

    import libarchive.public
    import libarchive.constants

    with open('/tmp/new.7z', 'wb') as f:
        def writer(buffer_, length):
            f.write(buffer_)
            return length

        for entry in libarchive.public.create_generic(
                        writer,
                        format_name=libarchive.constants.ARCHIVE_FORMAT_7ZIP, 
                        files=['/etc/profile']):
            print(entry)


-------
Testing
-------

*libarchive* uses [nose](https://nose.readthedocs.org) for testing::

    tests$ ./run.py
